login: netanelga 
Name&ID:Netanel Gabay , 303095228 
ex4 -DV Algotirhm.



This program is an implementation of the DV Algotirhm .
With this program you find the shortest path between a source router to all of the other routers in the system.



DV Algotirhm
1.) introduction:
DV Algotirhm is a routing algorithm which finds the shortest path berween a router to all the other routers in the system,using the Bellman-Ford Algorithm.
In this Algotirhm each router maintain a routing table(2d array) which contains it's distance vector(simply an array of the costs to go from it to any other router in the system) and every other router's distance vectors.
The routing table is first filled with the source dv,and after a while each router sends it's dv to all of it's dirce neighbors.
When a router gets dv from it's neighbor it runs the bellman-ford algorithm , recomputes it's dv and send it's new dv to all of it's neighbors.
The Algorithm stops when the source router gets 0 from all of it's neighbors,which indicates that they have'nt changed since the last dv it sent them.



How the DV Algotirhm works:
denote n as the number of direct neighbors of the source router.
1. n*2 threads are created :n for sending the dv and n for receving the dv.
2.another thread is created for recomputing the dv.
3.the send threads send the dv and the receive threads receive a neighbor's dv.
4.when all the send&receive threads done thier job,the send thread go into wait mode and the recmputer thread is waked up and recomputes the dv.
5.if the dv changed the send thread sent the new dv ,else they send 0
6.if zero was recieved from all the neighbors ,the algorithm stops,else loop to 3.



2.)Program output:
the program output is in this form:
des via cost
.
.
.
des via cost
...
where des: is a destination router
and     via: is the first router to go through in the shortest path between source router and des router.

3.)How to run the program: 
-open n Terminals,where n is the number of routers in the system.
-compile the project by entering "make".
-enter ./dv | filename | source router | number of attempt to connect to a neighbor router.


4.)Submitted files:
Makefile-the file that take care of the compilation. The input file is named smtp.exe.
main.c-source file containts the main function and all the functions for the program.



